OK so next we're learning our first flex box specific property.
We already saw a display flex but that's kind of an existing property flex direction is flex box specific.
So what it does is allows us to specify how the items of flex items are placed in the flex container
by defining the main axis in its direction.
So if we go back to this diagram what I'm able to do is change the direction of this main axis so I
could say instead of going from left to right I want our content and the main axis to go from right
to left or from top to bottom or from bottom to top meaning it would be a column.
So there's a couple of values that we can work with the default that we don't actually have to set ourselves
the default value is flex direction row.
And if I copy that over and I go to our demo code and I apply this to the container just to hit this
home again we're starting off only by talking about container properties.
Obviously the name container is not mandatory but we're talking about the parent that has display flex
inside.
Later on we'll see all the properties that apply to the individual flex items.
So again flex item row or flex direction row is the default commenting it or uncomforting it doesn't
make a difference.
It's the default.
But the next version flex direction ro dash reverse reverses the direction of the main axis instead
of starting from the left going to the right.
It now starts in the right and it goes to the left.
So it's still a row but it's a mirrored row.
So the first item starts here.
And the last item ends there.
So let me show you that.
You go rogue dash reverse and save.
And immediately we get this reversed row.
So the main axis goes from here to over here the cross axis is still the same but that doesn't matter
at this point.
We're only talking about the main axis because that's all that we can control all that we care about
with flex direction.
So as I mentioned there are other values we can set it to column instead of row.
And that will take the main axis and make it start from the top and go downwards making our content
into a column.
So just to show you if we started with this as the default This was our first one second and third by
changing direction to column it still first second and third.
But our access is top to bottom.
So let's try it instead of Rover reverse column and you can see they're all now in a column.
Yes.
This is basically the same thing we started with without flex box.
But as you'll see in a little bit the other properties we learn allow us to do many other things and
manipulate these different boxes so they don't always take up the entire container.
But as you can see just changing this from row to column makes a very big difference.
Ignore the size the width and all that.
Just focus on the order.
So if we go one to nine horizontally set it to column we go one to nine vertically.
And as you probably guessed there's also a column dash reverse that does something very similar except
our main axis is defined as going from top excuse me going from bottom to top.
So by doing column dush reverse We now have nine up top all the way down to 1 at the bottom.
So those four values you'll be using them all the time.
Row row reverse column column reverse.
To be honest I'm usually just using row and column I'm not reversing things all that often but row and
column definitely all the time.
In fact here's a very simple nav bar.
We'll be building in just a couple of videos from now.
And then what I want to show you is that we have things in a row at one point in a number.
But then I hit a break point and it changes to column and all we're doing there is changing flex direction
from row to column.
So we have that to look forward to.
We're almost to the point of making this math bar.
There's just one more property we're going to learn that's coming up next.